doc/user/api-compatibility.md, before:

API Compatibility
=================

This document serves as a list of changes to the Ivory API, both in the file format and in the Scala API.

## 1.0.0-*-811f2fb

- Removed `--delim` from `extract-chord` and `extract-snapshot`, use `--format` instead
- Added `dense` formats `dense:csv`, `dense:tsv`
- Added `sparse` formats `sparse:psv`, `sparse:csv`, `sparse:tsv`

## 1.0.0-*-1fab84d

- Removed `extract-pivot` command
- Collapsed `extract-pivot-snapshot` command into `extract-snapshot` via the `-f`/`--format` option

      ivory snapshot -f dense:psv=/path/to/file

- Removed `-t`/`--tmp` and `--pivot` from `extract-chord`, and switch to `-f`/`--format` as well

      ivory chord -f dense:psv=/path/to/file
- Renamed `extract-snapshot` and `extract-chord` to `snapshot` and `chord`

## 1.0.0-*-4010b5f

- `Dictionary` now has `Definition` instead of `FeatureMeta`, which has two constructors `Concrete` and `Virtual` (new)
- Renamed `FeatureMeta` to `ConcreteDefinition`, and wrap in `Concrete` constructor
- `Virtual` is currently unused

## 1.0.0-*-57b95e0

- Added new command `rename` for create a new factset/store containing updated features.

### 1.0.0-*-076ec8a

- Namespaces must have names composed only of `[a-z]`,`[A-Z]`,`[0-9]`,`[-_]`, must not start with '_' and not be empty

## 1.0.0-*-bb4ec85

- `ingest` now supports optional Thrift format (specified by `--format`), which allows the importing of structs/lists

## 1.0.0-*-2433ce9

- `Factset` has been renamed to `FactsetId`

## 1.0.0-*-66d4ed3

- `createFeatureStore` and `importFeatureStore` has been removed.

## 1.0.0-*-e4212cc

- `cat-dictionary` will no longer support custom delimiters and will always use '|'.
- Dictionaries have switched to the following format:

      namespace:id|encoding=string|type=categorical|description=description|tombstone=NA

  A companion `convert-dictionary` command has been added to help automatically upgrade external dictionaries to this
  new format.

## 1.0.0-*-cc96fbc

- `ingest-bulk` in now just `ingest`.
- `ingest` has been removed for more performant `ingest-bulk`.
- `import-facts` has been removed.

## 1.0.0-*-548d896

- `import-dictionary` will now validate non-backwards compatible changes to the dictionary.
  This includes changing feature types. If these changes are intentional then `--force` can be used to ignore the check.

## 1.0.0-*-1c9d86c

`count-facts` cli doesn't require `-p` to be specified, eg. `ivory count-facts /path/to/snapshot` is now valid.

## 1.0.0-*-5a804e8

### Dictionary format

Previously dictionaries were "named", and consumers of the CLI/API would need to identify them manually.
This concept has been removed, and dictionary updates will now be stored under a global, incrementing identifier
in Thrift format (which may change in future).
By default the latest dictionary will be used in almost all cases.

- `ingest` and `ingest-bulk` no longer import dictionaries, and instead just use the latest
- `ingest`, `ingest-bulk`, `validate-store` and `import-fact` all lost the `-d`/`--dictionary` argument and will now
  always use the latest dictionary
- Added `-u`/`--update` to `import-dictionary` to support incremental updates to the latest dictionary
- Introduced `cat-dictionary` to support viewing a text representation of the dictionary

### 1.0.0-*-0e13188

- `ingest` and `ingest-bulk` both lost the `-t`/`--tmp` argument as it was not being used

Commit message:

Remove -p from create-repository command

doc/user/api-compatibility.md, after:

API Compatibility
=================

This document serves as a list of changes to the Ivory API, both in the file format and in the Scala API.

## 1.0.0-*-1c85f36

- `create-repository` now takes the repository path as an argument, and no longer requires `-p`/`--path`. eg.

    ivory create-repository /path/to/repo

## 1.0.0-*-811f2fb

- Removed `--delim` from `extract-chord` and `extract-snapshot`, use `--format` instead
- Added `dense` formats `dense:csv`, `dense:tsv`
- Added `sparse` formats `sparse:psv`, `sparse:csv`, `sparse:tsv`

## 1.0.0-*-1fab84d

- Removed `extract-pivot` command
- Collapsed `extract-pivot-snapshot` command into `extract-snapshot` via the `-f`/`--format` option

      ivory snapshot -f dense:psv=/path/to/file

- Removed `-t`/`--tmp` and `--pivot` from `extract-chord`, and switch to `-f`/`--format` as well

      ivory chord -f dense:psv=/path/to/file
- Renamed `extract-snapshot` and `extract-chord` to `snapshot` and `chord`

## 1.0.0-*-4010b5f

- `Dictionary` now has `Definition` instead of `FeatureMeta`, which has two constructors `Concrete` and `Virtual` (new)
- Renamed `FeatureMeta` to `ConcreteDefinition`, and wrap in `Concrete` constructor
- `Virtual` is currently unused

## 1.0.0-*-57b95e0

- Added new command `rename` for create a new factset/store containing updated features.

### 1.0.0-*-076ec8a

- Namespaces must have names composed only of `[a-z]`,`[A-Z]`,`[0-9]`,`[-_]`, must not start with '_' and not be empty

## 1.0.0-*-bb4ec85

- `ingest` now supports optional Thrift format (specified by `--format`), which allows the importing of structs/lists

## 1.0.0-*-2433ce9

- `Factset` has been renamed to `FactsetId`

## 1.0.0-*-66d4ed3

- `createFeatureStore` and `importFeatureStore` has been removed.

## 1.0.0-*-e4212cc

- `cat-dictionary` will no longer support custom delimiters and will always use '|'.
- Dictionaries have switched to the following format:

      namespace:id|encoding=string|type=categorical|description=description|tombstone=NA

  A companion `convert-dictionary` command has been added to help automatically upgrade external dictionaries to this
  new format.

## 1.0.0-*-cc96fbc

- `ingest-bulk` in now just `ingest`.
- `ingest` has been removed for more performant `ingest-bulk`.
- `import-facts` has been removed.

## 1.0.0-*-548d896

- `import-dictionary` will now validate non-backwards compatible changes to the dictionary.
  This includes changing feature types. If these changes are intentional then `--force` can be used to ignore the check.

## 1.0.0-*-1c9d86c

`count-facts` cli doesn't require `-p` to be specified, eg. `ivory count-facts /path/to/snapshot` is now valid.

## 1.0.0-*-5a804e8

### Dictionary format

Previously dictionaries were "named", and consumers of the CLI/API would need to identify them manually.
This concept has been removed, and dictionary updates will now be stored under a global, incrementing identifier
in Thrift format (which may change in future).
By default the latest dictionary will be used in almost all cases.

- `ingest` and `ingest-bulk` no longer import dictionaries, and instead just use the latest
- `ingest`, `ingest-bulk`, `validate-store` and `import-fact` all lost the `-d`/`--dictionary` argument and will now
  always use the latest dictionary
- Added `-u`/`--update` to `import-dictionary` to support incremental updates to the latest dictionary
- Introduced `cat-dictionary` to support viewing a text representation of the dictionary

### 1.0.0-*-0e13188

- `ingest` and `ingest-bulk` both lost the `-t`/`--tmp` argument as it was not being used
